Green Goblin : [lands in front of Spider-Man on a rooftop]  Wake up little spider, no you're not dead yet just paralysed. You're an amazing creature, Spider-Man. You and I are not so different.
Spider-Man : I'm not like you. You're a murderer.
Green Goblin : Well, to each his own. I chose my path, you chose the way of the hero. And they found you amusing for a while, the people of this city. But the one thing they love more than a hero is to see a hero fail, fall, die trying. In spite of everything you've done for them, eventually they will hate you. Why bother?
Spider-Man : Because it's right.
Green Goblin : [slaps Spider-Man on the head]  Here's the real truth. There are eight million people in this city. And those teeming masses exist for the sole purpose of lifting the few exceptional people onto their shoulders. You, me? We're exceptional.
[leans in and grabs Spider-Man's neck]
Green Goblin : I could squash you like a bug right now, but I'm offering you a choice. Join me! Imagine what we could accomplish together... what we could create. Or we could destroy! Cause the deaths of countless innocents in selfish battle again and again and again until we're both dead! Is that what you want?
[jumps on the glider]
Green Goblin : Think about it, hero!
Green Goblin : [the Green Goblin has just pummeled Spider-Man]  Misery, misery, misery - that's what you've chosen. I offered you friendship, and you spat in my face.
[Green Goblin continues to beat Spider-Man]
Green Goblin : You've spun your last web, Spider-Man. Had you not been so selfish, your little girlfriend's death would've been quick and painless, but now that you've really pissed me off, I'm gonna finish her nice... and slow. MJ and I... we're gonna have a hell of a time!
[Green Goblin lunges forward, but Spider-Man blocks and pushes him into a brick wall]
Norman Osborn : [speaking in his normal voice]  Peter, stop! Stop! It's me!
[Green Goblin takes off his mask, revealing Norman Osborn]
Spider-Man : Mr. Osborn...
Norman Osborn : Oh, Peter, thank God for you...
Spider-Man : You killed those people on that balcony!
Norman Osborn : The Goblin killed, I had nothing to do with it! Don't, don't let him take me again! I beg you, protect me!
Spider-Man : You tried to kill Aunt May, you tried to kill Mary Jane...
Norman Osborn : But not you. I tried to stop it, but I couldn't stop it. I would never hurt you.
[Norman discreetly pushes a button on his suit and the glider rises]
Norman Osborn : I knew from the beginning. If anything happened to me, it, it was you I could count on. You, Peter Parker, would save me, and so you have. Thank God for you.
[Norman rises up]
Norman Osborn : Give me your hand. Believe in me, as I believed in you. I've been like a father to you... be a son to me now.
Spider-Man : I have a father. His name was Ben Parker.
Green Goblin : Godspeed, Spider-Man!
[warned by spider-sense, Spider-Man back-flips over the oncoming glider]
Norman Osborn : Oh.
[the glider impales Norman]
Norman Osborn : Peter... don't tell Harry.
[dies]